can you imagine if you couldn't even
decide which video game like you didn't
even know like you've got some weird
nebulous
you pay 2 000 a month
and it's determined by your employer who
that money goes to
and like the video game company can do
like like can you just imagine like i
can't even
figure out how to frame this if
electronic arts
could enter into an agreement with your
employer to determine
how much video games cost
in which video games you play can you
imagine how bad that system would be
like it would be a complete train wreck
oh my god this is gonna be so painful
okay so do you guys know like how
american healthcare works like does
anybody have any idea like what happens
like let's start with the basics okay
insurance great that's a great place to
start so we're going to start here okay
so this is what happens so here's a
person
okay here is their doctor
and i can't really draw a stethoscope
but
that is a stethoscope okay and it seems
to be
on top of their head so you know good
luck with that to a chat
because my drawing is terrible
all right and then here's the insurance
company
so here's the first thing to understand
so you know generally speaking what
happens
is um you know
when i want a good or a service i pay
money
and then i receive the good or service
right like let's say that i walk into
the grocery store and i say i want to
buy an apple like i pick up an apple off
the shelf i go to the checkout counter
and i say
i would like to purchase this apple and
then the other person says
okay the apple will cost you one dollar
and i give them the dollar
and then i receive the apple and then i
take a bite of the apple and i said the
apple is bad and then i go back and i
say hey this apple is mealy and it has a
worm in it i would like my money back
and then the person at the cash register
says i'm sorry all
sales are final and we can't accept an
apple that has been bitten into
go screw yourself and then i feel
frustrated and i walk out and i decide
i'm never going to purchase an apple
from them again
so that's good because there's like
feedback between
like my purchasing power can be
controlled based on my preferences and
experiences
so here's what happens in
our health care system okay so
what i purchased
i give money to the insurance company
okay and then i go and i get a service
let's call the service yellow from the
doctor
and then what happens is the insurance
company
pays the doctor for my service
so the first thing is that this is like
a messed up system from feedback because
i don't actually control like there's no
like generally speaking what we would
want in a perfect world
is the money and the service to be
directly related so i can like have
feedback
based on you know if i don't like the
doctor then i can go to a different one
but like that's not how it works
so like here's practically what happens
right so i go see my doctor
you guys have to understand that i'm
biased about this okay because i'm a
doctor so i
i have a bias perspective so i go to my
doc
let's say i don't know if i'm the doctor
i'm the whatever but so let's say that
like you know patient goes to their
doctor and the doctor says we think that
you need this medicine
because i think this is what you need
and then
the the patient then tries to get the
medicine
but their insurance company says we're
not going to pay for that medicine
because this one is cheaper
so it's kind of like if if you go to a
store and then you ask someone
hey i want to barbecue tonight what do
you think i should get
and then like the grill master at the
store or the butcher says we have a
really great this like i think this
would be really good and it will really
be what you need
and then you kind of like say okay i
want to get like a a rack of baby wreck
ribs and then some other guy comes in
and says
yeah we're not gonna pay for the baby
back ribs because
you know pig feet are cheaper and then
you're like
but the expert told me that i should get
baby rack ribs and then the
this other dude is like yeah man sorry
like we're not gonna pay for that
because the pig feet we've done studies
or we believe that like people who eat
pig feet are just as like healthy as
people eat baby back ribs it's all [ __ ]
anyway it's all pork
it's all unhealthy so we're not gonna
pay for the baby jack grips
and that's really frustrating for me as
a physician because what the insurance
company does is they're like basically
like
they're the ones with the money so it's
kind of like it's kind of like you go to
the store with your mom
and your mom is like you're like hey can
i get this thing mom and you gave her
your allowance and she's hanging onto
your allowance
and she's like no man like you can't get
that thing because i don't think it's a
good idea
and it's expensive but you're like but
it's my money and then your mom's like
no but i'm like holding it for you so
i'm gonna say no
so the first thing that i find
frustrating about the the health care
system is that
you know the insurance company actually
has a vested interest
in taking as much money as they can from
the
the patient and then providing the least
amount of care possible because that's
like
their incentive is not actually in
helping patients their incentive is in
charging
as much as they can and then like
delivering as little health care as
possible
right so it's kind of like i mean a
simpler analogy is like you know
i want to go and like i said i tell my
patient hey i think you should like eat
an apple every day
and then they're like okay so can i have
the apple and the insurance company is
like nah man
we're gonna get you a sack of potatoes
and then you're like but dude i want an
apple and they're like no we think like
potatoes like if you look at the calorie
nutrition information apples are 100
calories of potatoes 100 calories so
we're going to give you potatoes
and then as a physician what i have to
do because what happens is because
potatoes are cheaper right
so like even though the apple is better
for the person than a potato because
potatoes have no vitamin c and they have
scurvy so i'm like you should really eat
an apple
then what i have to do as a physician is
i have to send a form the insurance
company says oh you can get an apple
absolutely we wouldn't want to deny you
an apple all you have to do is send us a
form
you have to fill out this one two-page
form about why the patient needs an
apple
and then we'll give them the app and so
essentially what they do is they they
create an administrative burden
for like doctors to give medicine to
their patients that their patients need
and so then what happens is like doctors
like it's very frustrating to fill out
forms and i have to fill out forms for
all of my patients
and so then what happens is like they
basically have they hire someone
so instead of paying for the apple what
they do is they hire someone
to review all these applications and
then make judgments about whether
they're going to pay for it or not
depending on the clinical information so
it makes sense but then what happens
is like there's they hire someone to
essentially like block
the apple and basically pay less money
and they make it really hard for
patients to get care and then what
happens
by healthcare providers is we realize as
doctors like i don't have two hours a
day just
to fill out forms and fax them to the
insurance company so i
i hire someone to do that process for me
so essentially what's happened
is that like the patient is still
getting the medicine at the end of the
day they're still getting the apple
but what's happened is we've increased
costs on the insurance side
because they have someone who's blocking
the apple and we've increased
costs on this side because i've hired
someone to make sure that that
that they don't block it so we both
hired an additional person to get the
person the apple
so now we've just increased
cost just across the board we've
increased costs
so the patient actually has to increase
their premium
right so now i have to build a patient
more
so this number goes up this number
goes up because of this and this
with no improvement in care
so one person says creating jobs fine
so that's the first thing okay so then
so like this is just super messed up
because like it you know the insurance
com
like and actually there are some good
reasons for this so the counterpoint to
this is that oftentimes doctors will do
things
so doctors have a financial incentive to
deliver the most expensive care to
patients
um and this actually gets worsened by
the insurance company because
what then everyone thinks is like if i'm
not billing the patient directly if the
insurance company is paying for it
i might as well do the most expensive
[ __ ] so like if i can get away with ct
so let's say a ct costs about
200 let's say an mri costs about 900
and if i'm billing insurance for it and
i get paid 900
or like let's say that my profit here is
and my profit here is 100 if i'm a
physician
it's my incentive to order as many mris
as i can as opposed to ct scans
because i make money more money with
mris
right so a ct scan is a cat scan and an
mri is a
magnetic resonance imaging there are two
kinds of imaging
techniques now the interesting thing is
that if i was billing the patient
directly
i would actually like consider that
right so doctors do do that because like
if i have a patient who's broke i'm not
going to charge him like 900
to go bankrupt because that's just not
generally speaking how the people in my
profession work like if you've got a
customer
and they can't afford something you're
going to try to like keep that customer
happy by doing like whatever you can get
away with
right so i i very much consider my my
patients financial needs
in terms of trying to come up with like
prescription plans and stuff like that
we try to
you know help people out with that and
that sort of makes sense like if you go
to a store
and you have like a relationship with
that business and the business is gonna
try to sometimes sell you the platinum
thing but if they can't sell you the
platinum thing they're going to like
try to at least sell you silver
so i don't know if people can agree or
disagree with that but you know
doctors definitely have or health care
systems definitely have a financial
incentive to order more tests
and the problem is that like with the
insurance premium
this guy's money essentially stays the
same
right like whether i uh do an mri or ct
scan
they just pay a co-pay and the cost that
actually gets increased here
is the insurance companies
so that actually goes up if i choose an
mri over ct
so then what happens is doctors are like
okay like the patient is paying the
premium anyway
the premium is fixed so we might as well
order as much [ __ ] as we can because
like
they're not paying for it i'm not going
to screw the patient it'll be good for
them
i don't have to worry about costs
because the insurance company greedy ass
insurance companies are taking the money
anyway so we might as well like order
the most expensive ship
and that sort of makes sense right but
at the same time it actually still
increases costs for the whole system and
then this
cost gets passed back to him in terms of
increased premium
because the insurance company ain't
going to go out of business so they're
like okay if the the doctor's billing
all this crap
one thing that we can do is we can go
back to the prior auth
so if you want an mri instead of a ct
scan
you have to send us additional paperwork
and then i'm like okay that's fine
i'm gonna hire another person to make
sure that all the prior authors go
through
so now we've sort of increased
yes screwed up incentives all around
okay
so yeah i mean the mri can be in the
third party that's fine
but the point is that the doctor if the
patient isn't gonna have to pay for it
the doctor is gonna uh
uh actually a doctor can't order an mri
i mean they can't profit from an mri
technically
um so like when i order tests for my
patients i don't
i don't make any money off of them so
but i i still really don't give a [ __ ]
because the insurance company is going
to pay for it so i'm like you guys are
paying the premiums anyway so like you
might as well get the best healthcare
you can
my point is that like all the costs like
end up so i don't know if you guys get
this but all the costs are like landing
on this dude
poor guy okay so i mean this is even
getting worse
it's gonna get worse okay so
then the problem is that like health
insurance is so expensive
that do you guys know who pays for most
health insurance in this country who
decides
how do humans get how do people in their
how does the average american get their
health insurance
employers right so now oh man things are
about to get wild
okay so now we see a third problem this
is just gonna
get worse because the the patient
doesn't even have control over which
insurance company they use
that's determined by this guy
right so it's like if if the patient
says i don't
like how much you charge me for my
premium or i don't like
that you're not paying for this
treatment that my doctor recommends
the patient can't even switch insurance
companies
they have no recourse there's no sense
of feedback
in terms of choice within the health
care market
so i don't know if you guys get this but
when you don't have a choice
in a market then you're screwed
right so like like right now i mean
people talk about how predatory video
game
providers are and i think that video
game providers are like
they're like kindergarten compared to
like the nba when it comes to like
health insurance companies
because at the end of the day you still
get to decide which video games you
purchase
and that choice about how much you spend
on skins or microtransactions or games
empowers you a lot and keeps costs low
can you imagine if you couldn't even
decide which video game like you didn't
even know
like you've got some weird nebulous you
pay two thousand dollars a month
and it's determined by your employer who
that money goes to
and like the video game company can do
like like can you just imagine like i
can't even
figure out how to frame this if
electronic arts
could enter into an agreement with your
employer to determine
how much video games cost
in which video games you play can you
imagine how bad that system would be
like it would be a complete train wreck
and so now now let's think about the
employer's incentives okay
so what are the employers incentives
there is no tldr the whole reason this
is a dlc
or the tl dr is the system is [ __ ]
but no no so their their incentive is
not to hire healthy people
right so the insurance company wants as
many healthy people as it can get
for as high of a premium it can get
so yeah absolutely so people are saying
worst cheapest plan possible so the
worst
cheapest plan possible to get the
employees that they want
right so now what they're doing is they
kind of like
they figure out like okay so we're gonna
try to
give the insurance company
a tiny dollar sign and we don't want to
give them a big dollar sign we want to
pay them as little as possible
but there's something that's really
bizarre which is that since the employer
has
500 customers
right because they have 500 employees
they actually get a better rate from the
insurance company because they're buying
in bulk
so that actually keeps costs down the
problem
is that when if you try to buy insurance
directly from it
from an insurance company you get no
bulk discount
so what this means is that you have to
get insurance through your employer
because it's going to cost twice as much
so i'll give you guys an actual number
okay
i pay about 2 800 a month for my
family's health insurance
for the same plan that is not through my
employer i can't even get the same plan
for a plan that is worse than the plan
that i have right now
if i buy it directly from the insurance
company
it cost me four thousand five hundred
dollars
yeah i'm buying family health insurance
so family health insurance is
expensive four thousand five hundred
dollars a month
right absolutely 50k
in insurance premiums so then what
happens is they're all these kinds of
weird like things because the employer
sort of
kind of doesn't give a [ __ ] right so
they come up with all these weird like
plans and i don't know if you guys
understand this but the more complicated
a financial instrument is
the more you're getting screwed so like
insurance plans
have different ways of screwing you okay
so let's just think about a premium
a deductible
a copay like do you guys see like
they're gonna [ __ ] you with each of
these the premium is
amount okay so this is
[Music]
dollars you pay per month
this is dollars you pay
before they
pay anything
this is dollars you pay
no matter what
and then you have maximum
dollars okay
this is max
dollars they pay
after which
you pay everything
okay this doesn't even
this doesn't include pre-existing
conditions so like you guys see how
complicated this is like
this isn't an apple okay so like let's
let's use this in the grocery store
analogy
so in order to shop at our grocery store
you need to pay us a hundred bucks a
month
the thing is if you shop at our grocery
store we'll pay for your fruit
you have to pay us 100 monthly fee okay
great
but there's a deductible how much is the
deductible it's 500
so we're gonna pay for all of your fruit
after you spend five hundred dollars
here
and you have to pay us a hundred dollars
a month anyway
okay fine even then when you when you
come in
after spending the first five hundred
dollars of fruit and you're paying us a
hundred bucks
uh you have to pay up you're paying me a
hundred dollars
and then you still have to pay the
grocery store five hundred dollars
before we'll pay the grocery store
anything
after you pay the grocery store five
hundred when you go buy an apple you
have to pay a copay
so we're gonna when you buy an apple
we're gonna pay 80 cents and you're
going to pay 20 cents but the first 500
bucks you have to pay all of it yourself
and then if you buy a thousand dollars
worth of fruit above that we're not
going to pay anything
so like that's just
like bizarre like there's so many
variables in that equation
and then what happens is like it's
confusing like because people don't even
know what they're paying for
like it's bizarre so i don't know if you
guys like know anything about financial
instruments but like
you know the more complex the financial
instrument like the worse it is for you
so annuities are a good example where
they're like you know they'll
be some weird like life insurance
instruments that they'll like pay you
some amount after some amount of years
and if you die you get this
if this happens you get this and if this
happens you get this the more
ifs there are in the system chances are
the more you're getting screwed
chances are because sometimes you need
ifs in the system
but then what happens is like this is
the decision-making process
and then like like what is a good health
insurance plan so then like your
employer is like okay well
then they like move all they adjust all
the levers right and then your employer
is like yeah we have great health
insurance
they'll cover five million dollars worth
of care but the question is
so they say that we have a five million
dollar policy
great but what's the deductible fifty
thousand dollars
oh [ __ ] what's the premium five thousand
dollars oh [ __ ]
what's the copay hundred bucks
oh [ __ ] right so there are all these
different levers and it's just like
confusing because if you're not happy
with something like i don't even know
who you go to like the basic problem
with this is that
you know this person should be empowered
to make the most decisions right this is
what everything is about it's not about
this guy
it's not about this guy it's not even
about me like i should like
these three people should have the least
power in the relationship
this person should have the most power
generally speaking you want to give if
you want like a healthy
market you want to empower the consumer
right like you want the consumer like
you know good video games happen because
gamers
like generally speaking i mean some
gamers buy [ __ ] games but
like part of the reason that i think we
have so many good games now and you guys
are welcome to disagree with me
but i think that like part of the reason
we have so many indie games is because
people are out there like
buying games that they want to play and
it supports indie developers
it's not like nhl 2015
then nhl 2016 nhl 2017 nhl 2018.
it's like we've got cool games like like
we've got you know
what are a couple of like i've been
playing northgard recently in drg and
like
you know they're like all these cool
like indie games
right that i mean i really like because
and we also have like big budget games
that are awesome like breath of the wild
like that's an awesome game like there
are a lot of great games out there god
of war on ps4 is awesome
jedi knight fall in order which is an ea
game oh my god ea
they're so evil but jedi knight is a
fantastic game
and so as long as your consumer like as
a as a video game consumer
yeah dark souls hollow knight larian
awesome
cyberpunk 2070 27 7
2077 whatever
right like all these games are cool we
also have like starcraft brood war
like that game is pretty awesome people
say good things about diablo 3 i never
really had a chance to play it love
diablo 2.
um yes of t5
so this is how the healthcare system
works
right and it's a mess because i think
the consumer doesn't actually have
choice
you have to pick you have to get health
insurance through your employer because
your employer
gets a significant discount and then the
last thing is like
you know like costs just get passed down
costs
just get passed down passed down passed
down to the
the the patient
because here's the thing i don't know if
you guys know this but health insurance
companies are not going out of business
doctors are not going out of business
employers are not going out of business
and so no matter like what
how you squeeze like if the doctor
starts prescribing expensive medicine
to the insurance company the insurance
company is going to increase their
premium
or sorry if you prescribe expensive
medicine to the patient and the
insurance company has to pay for it
they're going to jack up their premium
and then employers are going to kind of
jockey to sort of provide the worst
health insurance they can
to keep people employed and oftentimes
that they do their best to
provide like no insurance or just
absolute crap insurance there are a lot
of good employers out there who like try
to provide good insurance
um and and it's just the costs are
astronomical it's like it's not
you know it's like really kind of crazy
like so you know my
my health insurance my employer paid a
portion of
so when i say it's like 2.5 k that's
something that i'm paying out of pocket
through the nose
because i'm on cobra now don't even get
me started there
but before that i used to pay like half
and my employer would pay half
and i just decided i wanted good health
insurance because i had like you know a
wife who's having kids and [ __ ] like
that so
um and i'm lucky because i can afford
that and it's like absolutely
astronomical
and so this is how it works here's the
healthcare dlc
questions
yeah cobra is ridiculous
yeah so i didn't even get started on all
kinds other stuff like ppo
hmo all that stuff i mean that stuff is
even worse
like i i don't even know like this whole
okay so like one more rant okay so like
the idea that
so i try not to talk about politics and
i really don't think this is politics
but it's become a political issue
so should everyone in this country have
health insurance ideally the perfect
environment would be
one where the consumer in the health
care provider
have a direct relationship where it's
like
person
doctor and then you just it's just
two-way right because then you have the
most so
money service
the second that you add a third person
things get really messed up
you guys see that it's like
that's weird right so you pay this guy
this guy pays your doctor and it's like
what
like this is increasing costs by like 30
or more 40 right so there have been
studies that show that like
if you look at the cost of health care
for like every one dollar
in insurance the insurance industry is
like 30 to 40 percent of that dollar
and the thing that boggles my mind is
basically the only thing they're
providing
is like risk hedging
right that's the main value of an
insurance company
is that you may not have the money to
pay for cancer treatment
so essentially what insurance companies
do is they say we're going to charge you
a thousand dollars
a month and then if you get cancer we'll
pay like 50 grand for your cancer
treatment
and they do that with 20 people and so
they hedge risk so that
if something catastrophic happens to you
it's like it's insurance right so it's
about
hedging risk and what they really
provide is hedging risk
and that's a valuable service don't get
me wrong but it seems like they cost 30
to 40 percent of like
every dollar that gets spent like
hedging risk and spending 30 to 40
percent of your money
on like hedging risk is ridiculous
okay so what was i going to rent oh yeah
so uninsured
okay so then the other interesting thing
is people say like oh like you know
universal health care is good or
universal health care is bad like this
is the other thing that i think a lot of
people don't realize
so when someone without insurance
so let's say this person with insurance
you guys want me to keep going because
this is is this interesting to you
should i stop
okay all right so now this is this is
gonna blow y'all's mind okay
so let's say there's a hospital
okay
so let's say someone with insurance goes
to the hospital
okay and receives a service
how does their service get paid for
okay
insurance plus copay great so now here's
our insurance person right
so this is what happens so this hospital
gets paid
so let's follow the money guys remember
always follow the money
so money goes there right so we're
paying
this and then this person is paying this
so who pays at the end of the day who
pays
for the health care that's provided
the patient absolutely okay great so
let's say a person without insurance
goes to the emergency room because
they're having a heart attack we're not
even going to get into the whole
part about preventive care and saving
money and all that kind of crap
okay we're going to just avoid all that
for a second so let's say
the
so who pays for the health care that the
person without insurance
so who pays for that service
taxpayers okay how talk to me
my tax money how how does your tax money
pay for his health care
nope doesn't have medicaid
okay hospital takes a loss okay
so that's actually sort of
true so the hospital takes a loss
but you guys are right you guys are
right so now
let's this is the part of the story that
most people don't know so then the
hospital
goes to the u.s government
and says u.s government
we are taking a loss by caring for these
people
and we're gonna go out of business and
we're gonna have to shut down the
hospital
unless you guys pay us to stay in
business because
twenty percent of these people are
uninsured and each time they come to the
hospital it costs fifty thousand dollars
we're gonna have to close our doors
unless you give us money
and then what happens to a chat
right the government says okay we don't
want you to close your doors because
then they're gonna be people dying in
the streets so we're going to pay you
money
and now wait for it twitch chat where
does this money come from
taxes right
and so this is the crazy thing so there
are a lot of people
in this country who don't want universal
health care
what they don't realize is
they're paying for everyone's health
care anyway
because hospitals are not going to take
a loss the other thing oh there's one
other piece of the puzzle that y'all
we forgot so there are two ways in which
this person gets
so questionable because like maybe
they're printing money
right so maybe the the you're
it's not coming through your taxes maybe
the u.s is just spending money
but when when the hospital takes a loss
where do they make up the loss
where do they make up their loss
charging who more absolutely the
insurance company
they make it up over here so they
increase the amount that they charge the
insurance company
which in turn increases the amount they
charge you
so like i don't know if you guys get
this but the problem with our health
care system is that this guy's getting
screwed all the time like all the time
no matter what happens
this is the guy that gets food so to
subside to stay in business because the
government doesn't give
hospitals that much money right so like
medicaid pays like
30 percent or like 60 or like some
ridiculous
amount of costs so in order
for the the hospital to break even what
they do is charge the insurance
companies more
so like i'll just give you guys an
example okay so
for a particular health care system that
i was studying
they charge they collect 250
on average for a 30 minute 20 minute
for a 20-minute psycho farm appointment
for a psychiatrist
from blue cross blue shield okay
so when you go see your psychiatrist for
20 minutes and they give you a pill
they collect about 250 from blue cross
blue shield
for that same visit for someone with
medicaid
they collect about seventy dollars
like why is there such a big difference
it's because
the providers make up for this loss
by jacking up prices to insurance
companies which then pass along those
premiums
to patients and then everyone saying 2.5
k
per month 4.5 k per month
in insurance premiums how the hell does
that happen
that's how it happens folks this is how
these at ridiculous premiums get
this is how it happens this is our
health care system
so being uninsured is better no being
uninsured is worse
because then the only care you get is
the emergency room
so like the whole point of insurance is
that insurance provides preventive care
so you never wind up in the emergency
room this is the thing that people don't
get
is that like the guy who never takes his
cholesterol medication or blood pressure
medication
we're all playing for him anyway so we
have a choice either we pay for his
heart attack or we pay
five bucks a month for his blood
pressure pills
or we pay like a hundred thousand
dollars for his heart attack
right no just don't buy health care is a
terrible situation
what if you're rich without insurance
you get screwed
that's what's happening in this country
people are getting screwed like even if
you're rich and you pay for health
insurance
you're getting screwed anyway everyone's
getting screwed like this is the dude
who pays for everything
this guy
right it's like anyway what if you feel
like
that's what happens to people right so
there's like so
with with obamacare which you know i'm
really don't care about people's
political affiliations like the
the obamacare was like sort of a step
into i think it was a necessary evil is
the way i'd
describe it but so what happened is that
like they made insurance mandatory
which is kind of interesting because
what they did is they forced all the
people
who don't need health insurance like
young 23 year olds to buy health
insurance
to subsidize the cost of the people who
are like old and sick and need health
insurance
yeah the system really is [ __ ]
um yeah so like it's interesting i saw
an article a couple months or about a
year ago about like
a nobel prize like a nobel laureate
auctioned off his nobel prize to pay for
his healthcare
because he was broke and he couldn't
afford it so he literally he literally
sold his nobel prize
to pay for his health care like it's
bizarre
how do you change the system oh man okay
so like i said
the first thing to do the
a better system would be this
this is the first thing so people talk
about you know socialized medicine and
obamacare and stuff like that
the real solution is to create a
scenario in which
the consumer has power over their dollar
because then when they're the ones like
the reason that everyone is screwing
this guy is because
this guy doesn't have control over his
own calling
like so the guy who doesn't have power
in the equation is the one that's going
to get financially screwed
right like
so what you've got to do is give the
consumer power
to choose you try to make it
as like that's the real solution what
that looks like i'm not entirely sure
but i think the first thing is to not
have an um
an insurance based system so not have
something where your insurance pays for
your health care but you pay for your
health care
so a couple of good examples of this so
singapore
requires all of its
i'm a little bit dated on this but
singapore requires
all of its people to save a certain
percentage of their
income into a health care savings
account
the interesting thing is that when you
so you can pay 30 grand in premiums
okay you can disagree with this however
you want to but i'm just going to offer
an alternative okay
30k in premiums
to insurance or you can have 30k
in an account
so the big difference here is that when
you are in control of the thirty
thousand dollars
you're going to be way more careful
about how you spend them
when your insurance is has your thirty
thousand dollars
they're not going to give a [ __ ] they're
just going to try to pay for as little
care as possible because they've already
gotten the money
it's like an hsa absolutely right so
like
i think the core idea so singapore also
has a couple of other things like they
have a safety net
and other kinds of like insurance-based
things but i think it's kind of an
interesting idea i think
at the end of the day so i'll give you
guys just another random example
okay so this is what i really think is
messed up
so in ancient china and this could be
wrong so i was taught this by a chinese
medical doctor but
i don't really know if it's true or not
in ancient china
this is the way that healthcare
reimbursement worked
you pay a monthly fee to your doctor
any month in which someone in your
family gets sick
your doctor does not get paid
fascinating huh completely different
completely changes perspectives and
incentives
the incentive becomes keeping you
healthy
as opposed to paying for care when
you're sick
yeah get sick just to [ __ ] with them
yeah i'm sure there are all kinds of
problems honestly there's got to be all
kinds of problems with that because like
what if your doctor tells you to do
something and you don't do it do you
does he still not get paid i don't know
maybe he fires you then i don't know but
like
like our whole our whole health care
system it's not health care it's sick
care
it's just like the incentives are
completely perverse
they're just like they're just all
messed up
so that's my health care rent like this
this is just ridiculous guys
this is even more ridiculous it's just
all ridiculous
so i i mean like i think that having a
single-payer system
is good in some ways because
at least uh because you know the
government and
they're going to be political statements
about this too so it's not really my
place but
so we do know oh so here's actually data
so let's do data okay so
so the administrative cost of insurance
is about 30 cents on the dollar
so the cost of having a private
insurance company in the system is about
30 cents on the dollar can anybody guess
what
medicare and medicaid's it
administrative overhead
is compared to 30 cents on the dollar
compared to private efficient insurance
companies
great i love it three to four cents
on the dollar
three to four cents their administrative
overhead
for administering health insurance is 10
of what a private insurance company is
and do you guys know what administrative
overhead includes
so here's the beautiful thing corporate
salaries are administrative overhead
right so like it's not my place to say
whether the government is corrupt or not
corrupt like i really don't know about
that but like i can give you guys some
statistics
and if you guys want references i have
references
let me see if i can find them that's
going to protect it
oh [ __ ]
let's just google it see
so
i'm not sure what i i mean i'm seeing
articles from the new york times
and other things but here
i'll show you
oh [ __ ] hey wall
so i i don't know if this is i mean
these aren't cited well
but medicare has an overhead of about
three percent private insurance has 25
to 30 percent that's wasted i don't know
it's washington post so it's not a
primary study i i think i've got the
primary
analysis somewhere um
i just have to get up but
yeah yeah so i i
that's what i'm saying i don't think
those are good sources so i'd have to
find the primary
i've seen i mean i've seen the primary
studies that are done in
like health affairs
care
so there's like new england
new england journal of medicine and
health affairs i think or where i've
i've read this stuff before and those i
think are pretty reputable sources
but y'all are also welcome to disagree i
you know
common media i i just don't trust as
much as like primary like
literature um
here we go so this is also a blog
um but health affairs is a pretty good
source
yeah so of course oh so so for common
yeah so this is like cms.gov so
this is a good resource right so
medicare spending rose by an average of
4.3 percent
private insurance so this is a good
source
this so now twitch chat like if you guys
want good sources
this is the good stuff man cms.gov baby
like not new york times not washington
post you go straight to cms.gov
it's like that's where the good [ __ ] is
um national academy for social insurance
i don't know what that is spending
okay so kaiser family foundation that
too is
this kaiser
says two percent of operating
expenditures administrative costs are
closer to 17
[Music]
um
yeah interesting anyway if you guys want
good data like this is where you gotta
go
like you gotta go to cms.gov right go to
the primary source
um
so
those are the dlcs my friends a couple
of other
uh closing thoughts one is um
so just in terms of all the stuff that's
going on with like sexual assault and
and misbehavior uh we do have like a
a safe space for women on our discord
which i
recognize some people have issues with
and if we have it for women why don't we
have it for other communities and all
that good stuff like that's an important
discussion
um the short answer is that it seems
like women feel
get a lot of you know bad responses from
people
and so we do have a space for women to
feel free to like you know talk about
issues and
feel safe um you guys can check it out
on our discord i think go to the
announcement section and there's a way
to join
and uh yeah i mean so
um you know if you guys are are
struggling with with
any of that stuff and and you need a
place to go like that's one place that
you can go
i still sort of um so we recognize the
importance of that and
at the same time i think a big part of
our mission at healthy gamer is that
you know i personally believe that our
shared experiences at human being
as human beings trump at the end of the
day
any kind of gender or identity based
experience i think that
at the end of the day what brings us
together as human beings
is like greater than what separates us
is another way to put it
and at the same time i fully admit and
acknowledge that
you know depending on your race your
gender
or ethnicity or any number of other
factors
your experience of life is going to be
fundamentally different
um and so like you know balancing that
is tricky
and i think at the end of the day though
we're all just people and i'm
you know healthy gamer is here to
support people and sometimes some people
need more support than other people
so that's kind of how we work um thank
you guys very much for coming
um we've got a lot of exciting stuff
kind of coming out so
a couple of closing announcements so
we're going to have
um someone
yvonne from offline tv on wednesday
we have um austin who has like some
dating shows and stuff
on twitch on friday uh we're our
coaching program is live and is going
well
thankfully so i think people are getting
helped and stuff like that we're going
to be opening up
new spots um i think today
and then some more spots maybe one more
week from now where we may be
kind of full after that but go ahead and
sign up for the waiting list
we also started training our next batch
of coaches actually today so we had our
first coach training a couple hours ago
and so we're going to try to train them
over the next couple of months it does
take time because we want to make sure
that you know they're
able to do their good job a good job and
we have sort of
a pretty hectic training schedule where
they work with people
and we sort of supervise their coaching
and make sure that they can do a good
job so it takes a couple of months to
train them
about three months four months um
and yeah and i think the last thing that
uh is that we're working on
sort of you know more different kinds of
content
kind of stuff like this but we probably
won't necessarily stream at all but like
we want to do like kind of more
comprehensive content
so we're kind of working on all that
stuff and we appreciate all the support
um last couple of thoughts is you know
we i get a lot of requests from parents
and um give me just one
you